# Content

This directory contains stuff used on the GitLab CI.

## docker

Contains definitions for Docker images.

## testbed

Contains definitions for testbed related tests.

## scripts

Contains scripts used on GitLab CI.

## tests

Contains tests used on GitLab CI.

## build.yml

Contains definition of the GitLab CI build test job templates used during `build` stage. Those templates can then be extended by other GitLab CI jobs in order to keep things DRY.

### .build test config

Allows build testing of specific configurations defined in the profiles directory, using `scripts/gen_config.py` under the hood.

Example usage:

```yaml
include:
 - local: .gitlab/build.yml

stages:
 - build

build test netgear-rax40 prpl webui:
  extends: .build test config
```

Which is going to build test prplwrt with `netgear-rax40`, `prpl` and `webui` profiles.

Description of CI variables:

 * CI_BUILD_CONFIG_EXTRA - list of additional config options which should be enabled(prefixed with `+`) or disabled (prefixed with `-`), for example `+BUILD_LOG -SDK` would result in `CONFIG_BUILD_LOG=y` and `CONFIG_SDK=y` config symbols in `.config` file.

## docker.yml

Provides support for building, tagging and pushing the Docker images to image registry.

For example let's build image `foo`.

Prerequisites:

 * Create directory for new Docker image `mkdir -p .gitlab/docker/foo`
 * Docker image description `$EDITOR .gitlab/docker/foo/Dockefile`

Then just put following into `.gitlab/docker/foo/gitlab.yml`

```yaml
build Docker image foo:
  extends: .build Docker image
```

## testbed.yml

Provides bits needed for runtime testing on real device using [labgrid](https://labgrid.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) Python testing framework.

Supported devices:

 * Netgear RAX40

## sdk.yml

Provides support for the [OpenWrt SDK](https://openwrt.org/docs/guide-developer/using_the_sdk) utilizing the [Docker SDK container](https://gitlab.com/prpl-foundation/prplwrt/prplwrt/-/tree/prplwrt/.gitlab/docker/sdk) under the hood.

### .build feed with SDK

Allows compile testing of packages using the SDK.

Example usage, build testing of [safec3](https://gitlab.com/prpl-foundation/intel/feed_opensource_apps/-/tree/ugw-8.4.1/safec3) package from Intel's `feed_opensource_apps` feed.

```yaml
include:
  - remote: https://gitlab.com/prpl-foundation/prplwrt/prplwrt/-/raw/prplwrt/.gitlab/sdk.yml

build:
  extends: .build feed with SDK
  variables:
    CI_SDK_INSTALL_FEEDS: feed_target_mips
    CI_SDK_BUILD_PACKAGES: safec3
```

Description of CI variables:

 * CI_SDK_INSTALL_FEEDS - list of feeds which should be installed prior to building packages.
 * CI_SDK_BUILD_PACKAGES - list of packages which should be compile tested.

### .generate SDK package build jobs

Generates `sdk-package-jobs.yml` with separate build jobs for every package so the builds of those packages
can run in parallel. It's supposed to be executed by the child pipeline `.execute SDK package build jobs`.

### .execute SDK package build jobs

It's supposed to execute jobs generated in `sdk-package-jobs.yml` generated by `.generate SDK package build jobs` job.
